Now let's go back to Dr. Blumer to learn how culture plays a role in our sexual
behaviors in general. How does culture play a role in sexual behavior?
>> So definitely the larger culture in which an individual couple, couples are
embedded, is going to play a part. It's going to play a part in how they view
their own gender. how they view their role in terms of sexual activity. Who
initiates. Who orgasms? Who doesn't? What the reasons are for the sex. one of
the biggest things culturally, because when we're talking about culture, we're
really talking about a lot of different influences. Geographic location,
nationality, ethnicity, race, religion, able-bodiness veteran status, economic
status, educational level, sexual orientation. You know, all of these things
are going to play a huge part. One of the biggest things is religion. We know
that, that how people religiously identify, and how high they are in
religiosity. In other words, how how much they view the world as through a
religious lens, that's going to play a huge part. So if you come from more of a
conservative religious background or fundamental background, across any
religion, then typically the views around sexuality and the reason for sex
tends to be more restrictive. So we're back to that believe around sex being
more for traditional and reproductive reasons. if you come from a less
religious background or religion that tends to be less conservative or
fundamental, then typically you're going to fallen into a belief around
sexuality that tends to be more relational in nature. or some combination
between relational, recreational and traditional slash. procreative reasons
besides biology which really drives people internally a lot of the time around
sexual practices. The role of culture just cannot be ignored. It can't be
disentangled by who people are sexually. Absolutely.
